Add spec for IPFS gateway for Sticker Pack (#110)
status-im/specs: docs/draft/sticker-pack.md

---

> title: IPFS gateway for Sticker Pack

Reviewer: Should the focus of this spec be more on

1) How stickers are communicated, maintained, uploaded here, or
2) How IPFS is used for querying and posting data?

E.g. do we imagine this evolving into more elaborate sticker markets/images/videos etc, or towards IPFS light node/Swarm/Dagger usage?

Author: This spec is about `2. How IPFS is used for querying and posting data`. Added link to Sticker Market spec where I think more detailed information is needed. Covered steps that are not directly connected with IPFS on a high level only.

version: 0.1.0
status: Draft
authors: Gheorghe Pinzaru <gheorghe@status.im>

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: id missing

  - /sticker-pack.html
---

## Table of Contents

 1. [Abstract](#abstract)
 2. [Specification](#specification)
 3. [Copyright](#copyright)

## Abstract

In this specification, we describe how Status app uses IPFS gateway to store stickers.
We will explore image format, how they are uploaded and how an end user can see them

> inside the Status app.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to refer to PAYLOADS spec somewhere for how stickers are sent?

## Definition

| Term             | Description                                                                            |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Stickers**     | A set of images which can be used to express emotions                                  |
| **Sticker Pack** | ERC721 token which includes the set of stickers                                        |
| **IPFS**        | P2P network used to store and share data, in this case, the images for the stickerpack |

## Specification

### Image format
Accepted image file types are **PNG, JPG/JPEG and GIF**, with a maximum allowed size of 300kb.
The minimum sticker image resoulution is 512x512, and background of clipart should be transparent.

### Distribution

> Sticker pack are implemented as ERC721 token and contains a set of stickers. These stickers

Reviewer: Link to ERC721 spec

are stored inside the sticker pack as a set of hyperlinks pointing to IPFS storage. These
hyperlinks are publically available and can be accessed by any user inside the status chat.
Stickers can be sent in chat only by accounts that own the sticker pack.

### IPFS gateway

> At the moment of writing, Status uses the [Infura](https://infura.io/) gateway.

Reviewer: Rephrase as "current main Status app" is using Infura. And something like "However clients could choose to run IPFS node..."~

Infura gateway is an HTTPS gateway, which based on an HTTP GET request with the
multihash block will return the stored content at that block address. 

The use of gateway is required to enable easy access to the resources over HTTP.
Each image of a sticker is stored inside IPFS using a unique address that is 
derived from the hash of the file. This ensures that a file can't be overridden,
and an end-user of the IPFS will receive the same file at a given address.

> The IPFS gateway acts as an end-user of the IPFS and allows users of the gateway

Reviewer: Move to security consideration section, also what meta information? Seems like typo in "whole IPFS network will be lost".

Probably worth mentioning pinning requirement here too, though that's mgiht be more of a functional req/recommendation than security consideration

to access IPFS without connection to the P2P network. Usage of a gateway introduces
potential risk for the users of that gateway provider. In case of a compromising
of security of the provider, meta information of its users can be leaked. Or if the
provider servers are unavailable the access to the whole IPFS network will be lost.

When a sticker is shown in the app, Status app makes an http GET request to IPFS gateway using the hyperlink. 

> ### Status sticker usage

Reviewer: How are they uploaded by a content creator?

> ### Status sticker usage

Reviewer: For the contract, are there any moderation / approval / control etc concerns? Or are they vanilla ERC721 tokens?

To send a sticker in chat, a user of Status should  buy or install a sticker pack.
To install a sticker pack, we need to fetch all sticker packs which are available in Sticker Market. 
The following steps are needed to fetch all sticker packs:

> #### 1. Get total number of sticker packs

Reviewer: spacing

Call `packCount()` on the sticker market contract, will return number of sticker pack registered as `uint256`.
#### 2. Get sticker pack by id

> ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to total number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. 

Reviewer: What is price exactly?

---
title: IPFS gateway for Sticker Pack
version: 0.1.0
status: Draft
authors: Gheorghe Pinzaru <gheorghe@status.im>
redirect_from:
  - /sticker-pack.html
---

## Table of Contents

 1. [Abstract](#abstract)
 2. [Specification](#specification)
 3. [Copyright](#copyright)

## Abstract

In this specification, we describe how Status app uses IPFS gateway to store stickers.
We will explore image format, how they are uploaded and how an end user can see them

> insed the Status app.

Reviewer 2: insed -> inside

> insed the Status app.

Reviewer 3: "insed" misprint

> insed the Status app.

Reviewer 4: ~insed~ inside

> insed the Status app.

Author: ```suggestion
inside the Status app.
```

## Definition

| Term             | Description                                                                            |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Stickers**     | A set of images which can be used to express emotions                                  |
| **Sticker Pack** | ERC721 token which includes the set of stickers                                        |
| **IPFS**        | P2P network used to store and share data, in this case, the images for the stickerpack |

## Specification

### Image format
Accepted image file types are **PNG, JPG/JPEG and GIF**, with a maximum allowed size of 300kb.
The minimum sticker image resoulution is 512x512, and background of clipart should be transparent.

### Distribution

Sticker pack are implemented as ERC721 token and contains a set of stickers. These stickers
are stored inside the sticker pack as a set of hyperlinks pointing to IPFS storage. These
hyperlinks are publically available and can be accessed by any user inside the status chat.
Stickers can be sent in chat only by accounts that own the sticker pack.

### IPFS gateway

> At the moment of writing, the Status uses the [Infura](https://infura.io/) gateway.

Reviewer 2: the Status -> Status

> At the moment of writing, the Status uses the [Infura](https://infura.io/) gateway.

Author: ```suggestion
At the moment of writing, Status uses the [Infura](https://infura.io/) gateway.
```

derived from the hash of the file. This ensures that a file can't be overridden,
and an end-user of the IPFS will receive the same file at a given address.

The IPFS gateway acts as an end-user of the IPFS and allows users of the gateway
to access IPFS without connection to the P2P network. Usage of a gateway introduces
potential risk for the users of that gateway provider. In case of a compromising
of security of the provider, meta information of its users can be leaked. Or if the
provider servers are unavailable the access to the whole IPFS network will be lost.

When a sticker is shown in the app, Status app makes an http GET request to IPFS gateway using the hyperlink. 

### Status sticker usage
To send a sticker in chat, a user of Status should  buy or install a sticker pack.
To install a sticker pack, we need to fetch all sticker packs which are available in Sticker Market. 
The following steps are needed to fetch all sticker packs:
#### 1. Get total number of sticker packs
Call `packCount()` on the sticker market contract, will return number of sticker pack registered as `uint256`.
#### 2. Get sticker pack by id

> ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to totatl number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to total number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. 
```

> `TODO:` Describe contenthash, it's a hash in IPFS (what it contains?)

Author: Contains pack info, describe the structure and all fields

##### 3. Get owned stick packs

> To get owned packs, we should get all owned tokens for the current account address. To do that we should call `balanceOf(address)` where address is the address for current account. This method returns a `uint256` representing the token id representing the count of available tokens. Using `tokenOfOwnerByIndex(address,uint256)` method, with the address of the user and ID in form of a `uint256` which is an incremented int from 0 to total number of tokens, we will get token id. To get sticker pack id from token we call`tokenPackId(uint256)` where `uint256` is the token id. This method will return an `uint256` which is the id of the owned sticker pack.

Author: ```suggestion
To get owned packs, we should get all owned tokens for the current account address. To do that we should call `balanceOf(address)` where address is the address for current account. This method returns a `uint256` representing the count of available tokens. Using `tokenOfOwnerByIndex(address,uint256)` method, with the address of the user and ID in form of a `uint256` which is an incremented int from 0 to total number of tokens, we will get token id. To get sticker pack id from token we call`tokenPackId(uint256)` where `uint256` is the token id. This method will return an `uint256` which is the id of the owned sticker pack.
```

---
permalink: /spec/8
parent: Draft specs
title: 8/IPFS gateway for Sticker Pack
---

# 8/IPFS gateway for Sticker Pack

> Version: 0.1.0
>
> Status: Draft
>
> Authors: Gheorghe Pinzaru <gheorghe@status.im>
>

## Table of Contents

 1. [Abstract](#abstract)
 2. [Specification](#specification)
 3. [Copyright](#copyright)

## Abstract

> In this specification, we describe how Status app uses IPFS gateway to store stickers.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this specification, we describe how Status uses the IPFS gateway to store stickers.
```

We will explore image format, how they are uploaded and how an end user can see them inside the Status app.

## Definition

| Term             | Description                                                                            |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Stickers**     | A set of images which can be used to express emotions                                  |
| **Sticker Pack** | ERC721 token which includes the set of stickers                                        |
| **IPFS**         | P2P network used to store and share data, in this case, the images for the stickerpack |

## Specification

### Image format

> Accepted image file types are **PNG, JPG/JPEG and GIF**, with a maximum allowed size of 300kb.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Accepted image file types are `PNG`, `JPG/JPEG` and `GIF`, with a maximum allowed size of 300kb.
```

> The minimum sticker image resoulution is 512x512, and background of clipart should be transparent.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The minimum sticker image resolution is 512x512, and its background SHOULD be transparent.
```

### Distribution

> Sticker pack are implemented as [ERC721 token](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) and contains a set of stickers. These stickers

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Sticker packs are implemented as [ERC721 token](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) and contain a set of stickers. These stickers
```

```
{meta {:name "Sticker pack name"
       :author "Author Name"
       :thumbnail "e30101701220602163b4f56c747333f43775fdcbe4e62d6a3e147b22aaf6097ce0143a6b2373"
       :preview "e30101701220ef54a5354b78ef82e542bd468f58804de71c8ec268da7968a1422909357f2456"
       :stickers [{:hash "e301017012207737b75367b8068e5bdd027d7b71a25138c83e155d1f0c9bc5c48ff158724495"}
       {:hash "e301017012201a9cdea03f27cda1aede7315f79579e160c7b2b6a2eb51a66e47a96f47fe5284"}]}}
```
All assets fileds, are contenthash fileds as per [EIP 1577](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1577).
 This payload is uploaded also to IPFS, and the IPFS address is used in the content field of the Sticker Market contract. See [Sticker Market spec](https://github.com/status-im/sticker-market/blob/651e88e5f38c690e57ecaad47f46b9641b8b1e27/docs/specification.md) for a detailed description of the contract.

#### Install a sticker pack

To install a sticker pack, we need to fetch all sticker packs which are available in Sticker Market. The following steps are needed to fetch all sticker packs:

> #### 1. Get total number of sticker packs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### 1. Get total number of sticker packs
```

Call `packCount()` on the sticker market contract, will return number of sticker pack registered as `uint256`.

> #### 2. Get sticker pack by id

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### 2. Get sticker pack by id
```

> ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to total number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. Price is the SNT value in wei setted by sticker pack owner. The contenthash is the IPFS address described in the [submit desction](#submit-a-sticker-pack) above. Other fields specification could be found in [Sticker Market spec](https://github.com/status-im/sticker-market/blob/651e88e5f38c690e57ecaad47f46b9641b8b1e27/docs/specification.md)

Reviewer 7: submit desction ?

> ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to total number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. Price is the SNT value in wei setted by sticker pack owner. The contenthash is the IPFS address described in the [submit desction](#submit-a-sticker-pack) above. Other fields specification could be found in [Sticker Market spec](https://github.com/status-im/sticker-market/blob/651e88e5f38c690e57ecaad47f46b9641b8b1e27/docs/specification.md)

Author: ```suggestion
ID's are represented as `uint256` and are incremental from `0` to total number of sticker packs in contract, which we received on previous step. To get a sticker pack we should call `getPackData(sticker-pack-id)`, the return type is  `["bytes4[]" "address" "bool" "uint256" "uint256" "bytes"]` which represents the following fields: `[category owner mintable timestamp price contenthash]`. Price is the SNT value in wei setted by sticker pack owner. The contenthash is the IPFS address described in the [submit description](#submit-a-sticker-pack) above. Other fields specification could be found in [Sticker Market spec](https://github.com/status-im/sticker-market/blob/651e88e5f38c690e57ecaad47f46b9641b8b1e27/docs/specification.md)
```

> ##### 3. Get owned sticker packs

Reviewer: ```suggestion

##### 3. Get owned sticker packs
```

The current Status app fetches owned sticker packs during the open of any sticker view (a screen which shows a sticker pack or the list of sticker packs).
To get owned packs, we should get all owned tokens for the current account address. To do that we should call `balanceOf(address)` where address is the address for current account. This method returns a `uint256` representing the count of available tokens. Using `tokenOfOwnerByIndex(address,uint256)` method, with the address of the user and ID in form of a `uint256` which is an incremented int from 0 to total number of tokens, we will get token id. To get sticker pack id from token we call`tokenPackId(uint256)` where `uint256` is the token id. This method will return an `uint256` which is the id of the owned sticker pack.

##### 4. Buy a sticker pack
To buy a sticker pack we should call `approveAndCall(address,uint256,bytes)` where `address` is the address of buyer,`uint256` is the price and third parameters `bytes` is the callback  called if approved. In callback we call `buyToken(uint256,address,uint256)`, first parameter is sticker pack id, second buyers address, and the last is the price.

> ## Copyright

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Copyright
```
